# Welcome to a public repository of the Python scripts used in my undergraduate thesis
The code was written and tested in Python 3.5.2. Anaconda3 distribution was used for easy package installation. The scripts most heavily rely on [Biopython](https://biopython.org/) libraries which are already included in variations of [conda](https://conda.io/docs/) and on a [DSSP](https://swift.cmbi.umcn.nl/gv/dssp/index.html) executable which **is not** and **has to be downloaded separately**.

More information on usage and interpretation is available for each script in their respective folders along with any files they require as input (except for PDB files). This repository contains code used in my thesis "as is", without any improvements and with any and all flaws and bugs. Any improvements and fixes will be uploaded to a separate repository which will be linked to in this README file.

## script_cobalt
After applying crystal symmetry transformations, this one searches for atoms within 4 Å of any cobalt ion. If at least two atoms come from chains created with different symmetry operations, the cobalt ion is presumed to lie between two chains on a crystal contact. All such structures are written in an output file along with the names of atoms and their parent residues and with predicted secondary structure (with the help of DSSP). Manual overview was required to check for the types of metal contacts found.


## script_beta
This one identifies pairs of residues from different chains in the unit cells that are less than 12 Å (or any other distance) appart. Lists of all such pairs along with their Cα-Cα distance and Cα-Cβ angle give an approximate sense of the size and nature of the contacts found. The script proved to be of limited use when applied to the majority of β-sheet containing structures since the output had to be checked by hand and any kind of comparison in terms of bonding tendency was pretty much impossible. When used on a smaller set of nanobody structures though, it did clearly identify "5IMO" as containing a sizable β-β contact surface. This crystal "dimer" was used as a basis for our further as described below.


## script_rotamers
This one looks for sets of mutations that enable coordination of a central dummy atom in the artificial nanobody dimer. Rotamers of His, Glu or Asp that could conceivably coordinate the dummy atom in a certain position are added to a list, out of which groups forming octahedral or tetrahedral geometries are extracted. Each possible combination is saved as a separate variant structure in a PDB file. Variants are grouped in candidate sets based on which mutations (e.g. K19E F79E) they require. Additionally, two more scripts were written in order to make sense of the tens of thousands of files generated. **Sorter_distribution** simply counts the number of times mutations were used to form a variant and adds them to a table. A mutation that was used many times is presumed to be flexible in its (possibly unexpected) ability to form metal contacts. **Sorter_leaderboards** sorts all candidate sets by multiple criteria thought to indicate whether or not their variants are viable. Categories include the number of corners filled and the number of steric clashes. Both distribution and leaderboards are easily viewable in Excel or similar software, preferably with some kind of conditional formatting.
